Add blogpost for stable release of GABE (#1331)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_article/gabe-stable-release.md

---
title: "Creating games entirely on Android!"

> excerpt: "GABE brings full Gradle support to the Godot Android editor, so you can build and publish games entirely from your Android device."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: "GABE brings full Gradle support to the Godot Android & XR editor, so you can build and publish games entirely from your Android device or XR device."
```

categories: ["release"]
author: Anish Kumar
image: /storage/blog/covers/gabe-stable-release.jpg
date: 2026-06-02 14:00:00
---

> [Since 2023](https://godotengine.org/article/android_godot_editor_play_store_beta_release/), Godot users could [develop their games on Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.godotengine.editor.v4), but they still needed a PC to perform the final export. We began changing that in Godot 4.4 by adding support for [non-gradle exports](https://godotengine.org/releases/4.4/#android-editor-export-support). However, many features remained out of reach; if your project used Android plugins like [Google Play Billing](https://godot-sdk-integrations.github.io/godot-google-play-billing/) or required some gradle export customizations, you were back to using a PC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Since 2023](https://godotengine.org/article/android_godot_editor_play_store_beta_release/), Godot users could [develop their games on Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.godotengine.editor.v4), but they still needed a PC to perform the final export. We began changing that in Godot 4.4 by adding support for [non-Gradle exports](https://godotengine.org/releases/4.4/#android-editor-export-support). However, many features remained out of reach; if your project used Android plugins like [Google Play Billing](https://godot-sdk-integrations.github.io/godot-google-play-billing/) or required some Gradle export customizations, you were back to using a PC.
```

> [Back in 4.6](https://godotengine.org/releases/4.6/#section-platforms), we introduced a companion app for the Android editor with a simple goal: bring full Gradle support to mobile. While that early version made the editor “feature complete” on paper, it was still in alpha and wasn’t quite ready. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[In Godot 4.6](https://godotengine.org/releases/4.6/#section-platforms), we introduced a companion app for the Android editor with a simple goal: bring full Gradle support to mobile. While that early version made the editor “feature complete” on paper, it was still in alpha and wasn’t quite ready. 
```

> Today, we’re happy to announce that GABE, the Godot Android Build Environment is now stable and available on the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.godotengine.godot_gradle_build_environment) and [Meta Horizon Store](link).

Author: TODO: Add link to the app's page on Horizon Store.

Reviewer: Horizon store link: https://www.meta.com/experiences/gabe/26529365196759917/

Author: ```suggestion
Today, we’re happy to announce that GABE, the Godot Android Build Environment is now stable and available on the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.godotengine.godot_gradle_build_environment) and [Meta Horizon Store](https://www.meta.com/experiences/gabe/26529365196759917/).
```

> Today, we’re happy to announce that GABE, the Godot Android Build Environment is now stable and available on the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.godotengine.godot_gradle_build_environment) and [Meta Horizon Store](https://www.meta.com/experiences/gabe/26529365196759917/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we’re happy to announce that GABE, the Godot Android Build Environment, is now stable and available on the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.godotengine.godot_gradle_build_environment) and [Meta Horizon Store](https://www.meta.com/experiences/gabe/26529365196759917/).
```

## What is GABE?

GABE stands for **G**odot **A**ndroid **B**uild **E**nvironment. And no, it has nothing to do with the other Gabe you are thinking about! :P

> This is a companion app for the Godot Editor on Android which works in the background whenever you trigger a Gradle export. GABE handles downloading and managing all the build dependencies. After you grant it access to your project for the first time, it *just works* for subsequent exports in the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a companion app for the Godot Editor on Android and XR devices which works in the background whenever you trigger a Gradle export. GABE handles downloading and managing all the build dependencies. After you grant it access to your project for the first time, it *just works* for subsequent exports in the background.
```

> ## What GABE brings to your workflow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What GABE brings to your workflow
```

> - You can now generate **AAB** files (Android App Bundles) directly on your Android device. You no longer need to move your project to a desktop just to get it ready for the Play Store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now generate **AAB** files (Android App Bundles) directly on your Android device or XR device. You no longer need to move your project to a desktop just to get it ready for the Play Store or Horizon Store.
```

>     - This also means that you can now create, develop, export and publish a Godot game to the Play Store using only an Android device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - This also means that you can now create, develop, export and publish a Godot game to any store using only an Android device or XR device.
```

>     - This also means that you can now create, develop, export and publish a Godot game to any store using only an Android device or XR device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - This also means that you can now create, develop, export, and publish a Godot game to any store using only an Android device or XR device.
```

> - If your project uses plugins like Google Play Billing or AdMob, you previously had to use a PC to export. Now, you can build your apps with plugin support directly on Android.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If your project uses plugins like Google Play Billing or AdMob, you previously had to use a PC to export. Now, you can directly build your apps with plugin support.
```

> - Since XR apps require Gradle for vendor-specific plugins and features, GABE enables you to build and deploy XR projects directly from within your headsets. (In case you missed it: Godot is officially available on Meta Quest and Android XR with an experimental build for Pico 4 also available).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Since XR apps require Gradle for vendor-specific plugins and features, GABE enables you to build and deploy XR projects directly from within your headsets. (In case you missed it: Godot is officially available on Meta Quest and Android XR with an experimental build for PicoOS also available).
```

> - Since XR apps require Gradle for vendor-specific plugins and features, GABE enables you to build and deploy XR projects directly from within your headsets. (In case you missed it: Godot is officially available on Meta Quest and Android XR with an experimental build for PicoOS also available).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Since XR apps require Gradle for vendor-specific plugins and features, GABE enables you to build and deploy XR projects directly from within your headsets. (In case you missed it: Godot is officially available on [Meta Quest](https://www.meta.com/experiences/godot-game-engine/7713660705416473/) and [Android XR](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.godotengine.editor.v4) with an experimental build for PicoOS also available).
```

> To sum it all up, with this release we are removing one of the major limitations of the Android editor, the [ability to generate Android binaries on device](https://godotengine.org/article/android_godot_editor_play_store_beta_release/#generating-android-apk-binaries). You now get the same export customizations and features set on your phone or tablet that you’d expect on a desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sum it all up, with this release we are removing one of the major limitations of the Godot editor on Android and XR devices, the [ability to generate Android binaries directly on device](https://godotengine.org/article/android_godot_editor_play_store_beta_release/#generating-android-apk-binaries). You now get the same export customizations and features set on your phone, tablet or XR device that you’d expect on a desktop.
```

## Download

> You can download the GABE from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download GABE from:
```

> To sum it all up, with this release we are removing one of the major limitations of the Godot editor on Android and XR devices, the [ability to generate Android binaries directly on device](https://godotengine.org/article/android_godot_editor_play_store_beta_release/#generating-android-apk-binaries). You now get the same export customizations and features set on your phone, tablet or XR device that you’d expect on a desktop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To sum it all up, with this release we are removing one of the major limitations of the Godot editor on Android and XR devices, the [inability to generate Android binaries directly on device](https://godotengine.org/article/android_godot_editor_play_store_beta_release/#generating-android-apk-binaries). You now get the same export customizations and features set on your phone, tablet, or XR device that you’d expect on a desktop.
```

- [Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.godotengine.godot_gradle_build_environment)

> - [Horizon Store](link)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Horizon Store](https://www.meta.com/experiences/gabe/26529365196759917/)
```

- [Github Release page](https://github.com/godotengine/android-editor-buildenv-app/releases/latest)

> It’s been a long road to bring full build support to the Android editor, and we are excited to see what you build *entirely* on Android!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s been a long road to bring full build support to the Godot editor on Android and XR devices, and we are excited to see what you build *entirely* on device!
```

> - [Github Release page](https://github.com/godotengine/android-editor-buildenv-app/releases/latest)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [GitHub Release page](https://github.com/godotengine/android-editor-buildenv-app/releases/latest)
```
